
Replay of the press conference 2025 Activity Report
Sun, Feb 22, 2026 11:26AM • 1:41:53
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
activity report, Bpifrance, value creation, innovation financing, reindustrialization, industrial start-up, energy transition, artificial intelligence, development capital, credit insurance, funds of funds, deep tech, entrepreneurship, ecological transition, innovation financing., BPifrance, equity, value variation, capital gain, development capital, venture capital, French companies, dividends, taxes, innovation, artificial intelligence, deep tech,  Chinese competition, AI campaign, liquidity.
SPEAKERS
Speaker 5, Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance, Arnaud Caudoux, Deputy Managing Director, bpifrance, Speaker 2, Speaker 4, Speaker 6, Speaker 1, Speaker 3

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  00:05
Hello. Hello, hello everyone. Welcome to this 2025 activity report. Where is the camera so that I can greet the people who are there and that's it. So we present to you

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  00:22
The activity of the BPI in this year 2025 . The years go by more and more vices and they are richer and richer.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  00:29
And so you have a press release with a title that we are quite happy with since we have set a lot of historical records this year for the BPI with record activity, we will come to it and a very nice creation of value for the most part accounted for in our equity. It is always important to remember that the accounting standards that apply to the BPI only make capital gains on disposal. That is to say the bulk of our activity that generates value are accounted for in equity more than in the result So as usual I will start with the highlights of the year And you have all the Executive Committee here you can ask them questions then, the figure is that when we add up all the activities of the bpi in 2025,  We have €72 billion in equity guarantee loans invested directly or in funds of funds, and innovation and export financing loans. So 72 billion euros compared to 60 billion euros last year. So it's a strong growth highlights. As usual, we present this rose window which allows you to remember a number of events which, for the most part, have been the subject of other press conferences. But I'll come back to it anyway. We can start with the industrial part, the French Fab with yes you're right but with good first The big question of reindustrialization, deindustrialization that regularly drives us. So here we give you the figures which are at the end of September. We will hold a press conference on March 11. We will present you our observatory industrial startup SME ETI you know that there are several observatories in France there is the trendeo observatory which is on a purely analytical basis of press articles there is the observatory of the DGE which normally should release its statistics at the end of March and then there is a common observatory BPI France usine nouvelle that we will communicate to you on March 11 but of which I can do everything Here are the main points. We have a growth over the whole of the year E 2025 of industrial sites opened, SMEs, ETIs and industrial start-ups, of which is rather Good news and here you have the detailed figures at the end of September with c c 127 industrial sites on French soil inaugurated from January 1st to September 30th,  2025, 89 SMEs and 38 start-ups. So I think it's a very interesting figure and once again confirmed by the 4th quarter. So the question you can naturally ask is Yes, okay, but in front of that, there are companies that are closing. Yes indeed, there are SMEs that are closing and roughly speaking, the landscape is that of the plastic renewal of French industry where those who open are a lot of tech and it's a lot of transition, so it's devices related to decarbonization to electrification. So there are many, many industrial start-ups and SMEs that are innovating in this area. And those who are closing are much more traditional SMEs in sectors that are in the process of ebb and enter the past, unfortunately. So there is plastics processing that is closing, there is traditional mechanics that is closing and there we find all the speech, my speech that you may have heard on the Chinese offensive, China China, consumer goods, cosmetics, effectively retail, this is where it suffers and this is where we find the really aggravated, aggravating and sometimes even punitive nature of the offensive of the new China that has appeared since the end of covid we had a symposium yesterday morning with the clan police station where I was able to express myself on the subject it's a reality so that's it. Spotlight. Of course, there are many industrial SMEs that are closing a few mid-caps, some sites of large groups too, but there are many industrial sites that are opening 127 sites at the end of September and you will see September 11, March 11, sorry for the whole year. An even higher figure. So then, still in the French Fab. We did one every year. It's part of our job to completely revive the French economy around the passion for industry. So this is our 2nd Tour de France of industry With our blue buses that have allowed us to mobilize thousands of middle and high school students and students who we take to French industrial companies. So it worked very well. We were very happy, all well timed around the global industrie show of which I am still president and which will be another very nice edition this year. You'll see and then we achieved something we've been dreaming of for years, which was to make a kind of top fable like we did top chef on TV. it's called the made in France show. Finally it exists, it's on MC and it's been a great success. So I continue on the blue rooster. We launched our fund. So those blue shells. Yes, we can say it, BPI France Défense, so BPI France Défense and the retail that was launched in October And which is a hit, the French are there yesterday, we will say we raised 53 million euros And so we are raising much faster with this fund than we raised with the other generations of retail funds of the past that we had launched. So I remind you, we launched retail in France in 2020 with BPI France entreprises. One, then two, then three. It was high school. We launched a primary retail with BPI France entreprises à Venir Bea and there we launched this product which is a product that is focused on SMEs ETIs and innovative dual start-ups in the defense sector in October. So this is a great success of the BPI France Défense fund. We are very happy, that's basically the blue rooster family, we could say so many other things. The orange rooster family is the French touch. We celebrated our fifth anniversary. It's been five years since we launched this French Touch community with our ambassadors and we've really reincarnated completely This ecosystem revealed that BPI France was already doing a lot but for the past five years, we've really been doing a lot more since in total we've deployed 10 billion euros it's still huge sums when you want to look at them with a little hindsight on the French French touch Cultural and creative industries the red rooster well here and there it's The Hub it's Something that we created 10 years and so if we count the number of people who have been in this room for 10 years embodying French Tech so all the French digital the French software And now the French artificial intelligence I think we would arrive at Hundreds of thousands of people who have been in this floor of the 4th floor of six boulevard Haussmann, artificial intelligence, So we made our announcements this year, it was The AI summit, remember, it was In February, so exactly one year ago now, it's in India and we had announced that we would deploy over several years 10 billion euros To support the ecosystem of French artificial intelligence, the appropriation of AI by French companies, etc. press release, you may have seen that gives what we did in the 1st Year which is already very important. Lots of equity investments, a lot of financing, a lot of support, a lot of door-to-door advice. So everything we said we would do, we're doing it and I'm not going to go back to it because once again it's totally detailed in the CP that we released last week With just the good news of the week which is that we have found a budget of 15 million euros To be able to really deploy the promise of the plan dare AI in consulting, so in door-to-door of SMEs that had was announced by Clara Chappaz last year. That's it, I'm moving on to the yellow rooster there, the rooster created, so that's all our activity of supporting the creation of companies in a very, very capillary way everywhere in the neighborhoods, in the urban and rural territories, in short, entrepreneurial France. I remind you that we regularly publish Every two years every year the French entrepreneurship index Every two years the ief the French entrepreneurship index And which measures the proportion of French adults who are entrepreneurs have been entrepreneurs are intentional therefore want to be an entrepreneur and this index. Rises every year by several points. We are now at

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  10:07
36% of French adults who have been want or are entrepreneurs. So it's absolutely considerable and naturally we are heading for V. They offer them interest-free interest-free loans, support thanks to the 300 associations that we finance in all the territories and that will support them in the creation of their projects. Business plan 1st Step. We have created schools for them that are accelerators and we have a specific vertical for those of these creators who are in the neighborhoods the policy of the city. It's called The 2030 Neighborhood Plan, which is a super ambitious plan that we attacked but then fully with an event that is quoted to you here, which was for all of us here at the BPI, one of the flashes of light of the year E 2025 which was the Headquarters event in December where we had 4000 creators from the neighborhoods. It was a vital energy, almost even more so than the absolutely formidable Big. The Maintenant d'école honor loan is the zero-interest loan. So it's the public service for the creation of French companies With 20000 business creators who have benefited from the loan of honor This year for about 120 million euros, this is a highlight of a highlight of the year So you know that we have been asserting ourselves for a long time now And we present ourselves as a consulting firm for SMEs, ETIs and start-ups and so our support department has changed its name and is called Now the direction of the council. It recognizes itself as a great consulting company. In total, since the creation of our schools, which we call accelerators, we have brought 500 companies into our schools. So it's starting to get really meaningful. and in 2025, we welcomed 900. So it's about the cruising pace now, we welcome 900 SMEs and ETIs per year in our network of schools. And in addition, we do, as you will see later, a lot of consulting missions since we are roughly between eight and 9000 consulting missions per year each year. So it became a very big machine the consulting at BPI France. So we also wanted to give you a little flash on the fact that we are accelerating BPI France's investment strategy in digital assets. So we invest in tokens. We are very present through Arnaud Codo's teams in this field, which is a field that is for us a field in which we want to be a significant player. So, for example, we have invested in the company morpho in token and we will do so more and more, we have a fund dedicated to This, and then in addition, in equity, venture capital and fund of funds, we are, we are very active in capital takeovers throughout the French crypto start-up ecosystem, The Green Rooster, so The Green Rooster is The BPI's climate plan and it's also for us the animation of this huge community since it's one of the biggest communities of BPI France Isabelle is there We have how many roosters ver t 3500 companies that are in the community and that therefore share the events soon We're going to do our big event called Day e which are on our WhatsApp loops etc that we animate so the green rooster has all his box To tools, the toolbox is Green loans, of course, it's a lot, a lot of listening, More and more, it's The financing, as we'll see later, of the energy transition, so it's the credit financing by BPI France of French wind photovoltaic programs. It's equity put in developers. And then it's also advice, again, a lot of advice. So this year we launched two new consulting products, which are the biodiversity diagnosis and the adaptation diagnosis. Adaptation is this word of jargon of the community anyway Which consists of recognizing that unfortunately we are all on the planet very late in terms of what we would have to do to be carbon neutral in 2050 and that therefore in fact there will be more and more disasters and we have to prepare for them and it's called In this nice word adaptation who knows why we have chosen a word, a word a little weak to qualify what we are seeing at the moment, typically in the Garonne valley, that is to say innovations catastrophic floods for French SMEs The BPI. Not only does it advise SMEs so that they prepare to be one day flooded or deprived of energy because I don't know what copper cap will have melted. That's adaptation. That's it. And then we have created a new school for our green rooster companies which is an accelerator, so a circular economy school with a class of about twenty companies that are dedicated to this segment which will obviously become an increasingly important segment. Then, you have our white rooster which is the French care that we celebrated The four years of yesterday where The highlight of the year is that we have entered the capital of Opella And then we could add that we have also entered all this had been negotiated in 2025 in the capital of Biogaran and then, moreover,  we have structured our actions and accelerated the construction of the community from the white rooster to the French care community. So I will end by reminding you that BPI France has a very particular vision of communication which is not considered as a support function but which is considered as a profession in its own right, which is a profession whose purpose is to excite French entrepreneurship. The word excited. I take it from the founding acts of the savings banks. I seem to remember that it was In 1000, eight, 100 something like 35. It was in Guizot's time. And the founder of the savings banks, which was called De mémoire des scieries, had written in his paragraph, in his explanatory statement, that the purpose of the savings banks at the time was to stimulate entrepreneurship, that's what we do and we do it with a whole range of own guides in fact in which there is obviously advertising, that's very classic of the very strong presence on social networks because you know that we have created a media in its own right Which is called Big Media, which has taken very important steps since we now have 100000 followers but which also takes the form of physical events with always this philosophy with us which is that the more digital there is on the one hand and on the other hand, the more entrepreneurs are still Alone,  the more physical it takes to bring them together. So we did 300 events this year, it's considerable, practically one per day including the Bic that you know but also war french touch which was a great success Warframe touch we had from memory we had to Have it was at the stock exchange 8000 registered even though it's starting to become very big work french touch. We have the headquarters that I mentioned there too, with thousands, thousands present. We did the great event without a woman in Matignon. We are starting to do our events abroad. So we did a big event, a kind of Big Africa in Dakar which was a great success too. We had the whole ecosystem of entrepreneurs from West Africa and French SMEs interested in Africa who were present. We did the day, they who were in Lille this year, it already seems very far away, but which had a lot of people, and then we did a great event at La dIda sarena dedicated to the economy of sport, which is called sport, a definition that we will do again now every year, every time. It's always the same thing. It looks like a big. For those of you who have come to the big, you visualize so we make big big, small big that are thematic generalists. And so that's the fundamental role of the BPI of catalysis in fact and then of recharging the vital energy of French entrepreneurship We're going to say it to each other, especially in these years which are years when We're going to say the atmosphere is not great on the whole So let's go to the professions so let's start

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  19:03
So I'm going to make a number of comments on the historical records of the year. The 1st historical record is the record credits broken since the creation of the BPI 13 years ago now.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  19:23
And you have the figures here, so we have, in 2025, crossed a volume of credit, it's the yellow during, it's the knows, the it's the mole, where the grey, in the long and medium term, which passes the 10 billion euro mark for the first time, it was therefore unheard of, let's face it, it's kind of our dream when we created the bpi a long time ago Now one day we will make 10 billion euros of credit so it's done and it's 2025. Long and medium-term loans in which, as you may remember, there are loans without guarantee and there are loans with guarantee in its loans, there is a big big financing of renewable energies, 2 billion euros, that's what you see at the bottom there, which are so these are very long-term loans and which finance renewable energies and environmental actors. a new level in short-term loans since we are at 10 billion there Also a historical record, the short-term of the BPI being on the rise in an economy that is quite liquid but which still needs a lot to finance its working capital. So nearly 21 million euros of credit injected for the benefit of nearly 8800 companies on long-term credit and 7500 in short-term financing. We have a plan to conquer. We displayed it like this, which takes a very particular form. It is still our door-to-door of Mass e 55000 customer meetings this year achieved by the BPI FRANC E network and 17500 new customers supported in 2025 in particular by the guarantee but not only and an objective that can be You can remember, which is very important since we are a real bank of the industry. In a few years, we cover 60 of the industrial SMEs. Knowing that today we cover them, they are only customers of BPI France, 55 of the industrial SMEs. So we would like to go from 55 to 70 and then the novelty in terms of products of the year is that BPI France is successfully launched in structured credits. We have also launched a transfer plan which is very important. We talk all the time about transmission, it's a bit but it turns out that we do it and it represents a 6 billion euros of support for transmission in financing and guarantee this year from 4900 actors who have passed on to someone or their children each time there is a financial operation And we are there with all our tools which are tools to help with the transfer of funds resumption of interest-free loans, resumption of capital, transfer of the loan, etc. So a historical record on credits. We are also in a historical record for credit insurance. I turn to V. Denis Lefebvre, who is in charge of this activity. So that's credit insurance. It's what was called Coface, a Remember, and so a big year, huge year, 30 billion euros, Taken as a guarantor, 1500 companies supported, so it's not just big, it's not just Dassault, it's a lot, a lot of SMEs supported in their export project, so it's the BPI France assurance export activity that continues its momentum So you have 29 billion euros in credit insurance, so in there we have put you a little detail It's useful for you because there's a real European battle on the subject, it's what we call the strategic project guarantee, what is it, the strategic project guarantee is the use of the export guarantee tool, but to guarantee projects that are in fact of industrial establishment on the national territory. So industrial projects on French territory with an export vocation can now be guaranteed 80 out of 50 by the strategic project guarantee product, which itself will pump directly from the state's own funds. So it's a great product and all European countries are equipped because all European countries have a reindustrialization strategy. So that's the project, the strategic project guarantee is starting to take off and then we gave you an example of very large export guarantees. It's the Sizewell project, it's in the United Kingdom carried out by EDF and its guarantee partners of a £5 billion loan, which is the largest amount of civil guarantee that we have taken in a very, very long time. And so that's offshore wind turbines. Sizwell what is nuclear what is the wind turbine project was in scotland so that's nuclear so well there are guarantees of pre-financing I'm not going to go into detail the exchange insurance the exchange insurance well you have seen the evolution of the exchange rate is still very volatile this year so it has exploded the prospecting insurance is relatively stable compared to 2024 of a very good product prospecting insurance that we have well relaunched and that we have focused, as you can see, on the prospecting insurance industry. Now it's industry. That's it. Historical record for credit insurance, then you have a historical record for growth capital, so we have invested two 5 billion euros In 168 SMEs, ETIs, large companies and historical record also for disposals We have sold for three 2 billion euros In 127 SMEs, ETIs and large companies, in total, the growth capital teams led by José here today have handled 300 files this year, so it's a bit like our events, it's practically one per day so it's really the biggest big French equity deployment machine In volume the BPI I didn't look at what the PitchBook ranking was this year we're going to have it In a few days here is So you know there is this PitchBook rating that comes out every year and that places the BPI in general number two or number three in the world in number of operations Sometimes even number one in some quarters and It's normal in a way since we are built to do a lot of small deals and also very big deals for those for these volumes which are really very important volumes. The small mid large Cap activity is therefore small it is Tickets up to 10 million euros. Mid is tickets up to 25 million euros And then we go out to sea, it is done through all the teams that are in this house but also in the provinces. So these are funds that are generalist funds, sectoral funds. We have an environmental fund, we have a tourism fund, we have a car fund, we have a defense fund, we have a fund we had a rail fund as good and so we are perfectly equipped to be able to achieve this very very nice result of doing 300 files per year about like last year Except that this time we have done more than big files you have a few examples so it was The photo The famous the famous photonist company Who makes you know the night glasses that almost went to the United States and that we kept in France with an anchor of the BPI you have socomor Who is in the aeronautics industry and medical devices and then you have many others armatance One of our latest investments is drones that we with Dassault. Dassault, has put 68 million euros into the climate. We did Veolia. obviously that counts a lot. Veolia is a 700 million dollar ticket. We made valorem which is a very A very Beautiful a very Beautiful developer of NR What arvern arverne is Yes, yes, that's it. I'm looking for the word. I could see the tube going very deep. And so there you have it, Source. What is the source?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  27:59
Ah, it's Water. Ok well, there you go, we did health with a porthole with France Imaging Proteor In health. We did opella. As I said earlier, we have made software, software for the medical professions is called Medical Software. We did in Modia, we did a lot of AI. We are investing €240 million in equity in nine companies with Mistral Septéo Campus IA. So campus IA is this very big investment that we announced, you remember, at the summit yesterday last year with moubadal at MGX. So it always takes time. We had to obtain building permits in Foujus, we had to disinterest a certain number of farmers who own plots so it's done so now it's off we go we made an image in the in the cartoon and here it is So here is a year a year of very very very considerable investment finally that we had never done simply then I zoom in to reveal to you maybe And so you announce that you know in tech financing there are A number of asset classes So you have the seed Series A series B series C series D. Okay. And then you switch to tech LBOs, in fact private equity tech, and it was relatively unknown that BPI did it, people had a mental image that BPI does from seed to large venture, in fact another large venture fund, that is to say big late stage tickets, but when it comes to doing for companies that are profitable or close to profitability, so almost A bit like the big fund does. Parisian that we finance massively children of background which is kinsite People didn't know Although the BPI was doing it in fact not only are we doing it but we are going to do it more and more since the ecosystem is growing in maturity and so all these companies that we have made grow for about ten years Now are reaching this moment where They are not far from profitability and can start to Welcome Other classes of investors Who are the private equity tech investors of which we are also and so this is what we have done with the names that are mentioned here where we find some of those I have just mentioned. But you have an example of a participation of tecpi As they say or tech l of tech LBO of which we are quite proud. You have chafz Vision, you have echymetrix scalianis Sofia, you have Brain cube artifact also that made the headlines recently Folia team. So all this is the renewal in fact quite profound. So it's essentially digital at this stage. Soon it will be deep tech, you will see it from French digital With these success stories that you see there And so it's AI, it's cyber and it's software, so that's Now a thesis At José Gonzalo, so in the development capital department of BPI France, which is autonomous, asserted and will take up more and more space in the portfolio. We had started.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  31:49
Now we reveal that it has become something fundamental for us and we are going to develop it

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  31:57
then in the background of the background historical record again. So we have subscribed in 2025 to an 8 billion euros. That's it. So that's more than last year and more than ever. So we continue in a somewhat countercyclical way because it has not escaped your notice that raising funds was more difficult today than before. So BPI France has always been a cyclical contract. We invest more than ever 59 in innovation in growth capital and we do it with our own funds but we also do it with pockets of FRANC E 2030 that are entrusted to us in management is More than three years to last year We invested in this year I am looking for the figure 77 funds.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  33:07
I stop for 1 second because I know what it's like to work on a single fund

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  33:13
and participating in the various fund-of-funds investment committees, I have in mind All that it represents as work. So it's huge, in fact, I don't know if I'm in 77 funds in the year, it's considerable, it's considered very, very big business. How many people do you have now in your division, so there are 40 people in the fund of funds division. It's the biggest team of French funds of funds, that's for sure But it's probably one of the largest European fund-of-funds teams, so the assets under management of the fund of funds are 22 billion euros Now and we're invested in 700 funds, we have 700 partner funds and these funds return the money to us. Then, of course, they returned 784 million to us in 2025, which is a what is a nice performance 50 innovation and 50. So you see the small difference between our subscriptions. We subscribe to 59% of the innovation but we receive in distribution only for 100%. Where does it come from? This comes from the fact that venture capital funds and innovation capital funds sometimes have difficulty selling their stake at the moment, which is called the DPI. There are specialists here and under pressure in the French tech ecosystem and the underlying of this fund of funds is 7000 companies, i.e. 600 more in 2025 than in 2024. So there are 7000 French companies that have BPI capital indirectly through the fund of funds. The new feature of the year for the fund of funds is that we have become a big player in retail so I'm not going to go over it again. It is BPI France Défense. It is the 5th retail fund and in total all the BPI's retail funds have raised 400 million from. 500 French people so it's going up little by little, well here we are going to set ourselves the goal of passing the 100,001 day but hey here we have we still have a public of French savers who roughly put in on average €5,000 even if we offer them the possibility of investing from €500. So we democratized French private equity as much as possible. French venture capital is €500, so it's an extremely low entry ticket. But the fact is that on average the 25500 I'm talking about put in 5,000 €. Then let's zoom in on the climate bank. We must never forget that we decided, many years ago now, to be the climate bank and that we have set ourselves major objectives in the BPI's climate plan that we are receiving and on which we are even ahead. So in 2025, we have deployed six 3 billion euros in favor of the transition for 3000 companies and you have all our jobs that are mobilized it allows you to find our jobs so you have the advice I am not going to repeat the figures but you have there so it is diagnoses it is young people that we put in life mode in France that we call the VTE in the companies of the transition is the advisory program then you have the financing so it's the famous 2 billion euros that I mentioned earlier to finance renewable energy projects but there is more to it than that There is also financing for Green real estate there are loans and aid for the energy transition to finance 1100 transition projects and there is FRANC E 2030 then you have a lot of innovation financing there it's FRANC E 2030 squarely so it's 1 billion euros For green tech companies and it's about 50 and then you have investment So it's venture capital in innovation it's green tech start-ups you have Cap dev in SMEs ETIs and you have fund of funds and then you have guaranteed e 410 million euros With a new product that has taken off well this year which is the green guarantee. That is to say that if your project is green, the price of the BPI France guarantee is lower, we give you a rate bonus and therefore this is sold directly by us and indirectly by all our partner private banks who have very very well taken advantage of this green guarantee product. Finally you have export With export insurance on green products and then export credit on products that are renewable energy products total six 3 billion euros in favor of the transition 3000 companies in the year 2025 alone 3000 companies financed for a community of the green rooster of 3500 so it's Not bad it means that they are not in the community for nothing then industry bank More than ever, therefore, in 2025, BPI France has mobilized 8 billion euros at the service of 12200 industrialists and you have the professions again, so the consulting business is still many, many industrial accelerators. The advice is roughly 50 industry 60 industry that's it. And then it's financing. So long-term financing. 100 0000004 short-term financing. Lots and lots of working capital financing and therefore industrial production for €2 billion. That's a lot of funding for innovation. more than 2 billion euros. Honestly, here too we stop at putting 2 billion euros in financing for industrial innovation in the year 2025 alone. It's a lot, it's a lot, a lot, a lot. This says well what the BPI's priorities are, of course, but also the priorities of Franc E 2030. It is 1710 industrial companies that have had innovation funding and the novelty of the year beyond franc e 2030. This is the decision we have taken at the BPI to go all out again on SME innovation. There was a lot of emphasis on innovation, industrial startups, major industrial projects too, etc. But there was a tendency to forget to completely restimulate the innovation of SME owners in the territories. And so we went full throttle on the network. Remember, we have our 50 agencies Regional Directorate has gone back to the door of SMEs to look for projects in drawers and to realize in fact that the new generation of industrial SME bosses is super innovative. They have lots of projects and they ask that they ask if we go to see them and tell them that's good. We are going to finance them for you, so we are very, very happy about the renaissance of innovation in 2025 In the family industrial SME, often in the territories, and then in investment, I can come back to it, so you have the figures, private equity, innovation capital, we may have a little zoom on the National Industrial Venture Fund. Some of you may remember that when we launched the industrial start-up plan, we said to ourselves that we had to create a new class of private industrial venture capital funds, which are different funds with industrialists who are, sorry, investors who have not graduated from HEC, but who have rather graduated from engineering school,  who are engineers who are going to talk to engineers. it's called The Industrial Venture. And as usual, when you want to generate new private teams in Paris and in the provinces on a new thesis Which is different because the banger courses are deeper. The price risk is sometimes greater. And then you have to be able to audit projects, super tech projects. You need a bottom pocket that allows you to put your foot in the stirrup on these new teams. This pocket was launched by agnès pannier Runacher in January 2023 as part of the industrial start-up plan. It is called the FNVI and it is part of franc e 2030. And this FNVI endowed with 350 million euros. we are deploying it and so this year, we have deployed 85 million euros In a number of funds, large funds like I have in mind Jolt could you give 1/2 Name? Maybe astanaor. Exactly. These are funds that take big risks. Typically, Astanor took his risk on insects. So everyone took their risk in this case. The private as well as the public. Sometimes it works. Sometimes it doesn't work. Reindustrialization is not a bed of roses. Sometimes it's difficult and sometimes it works, the successes are extraordinary. That's it. Then, we make a lot of guarantees to the industry, so 900 million euros. But that's the decision we made, big prospecting insurance tickets that benefited Six en boîte that we launched, that's it, on the territory, all over the world and then our tour of France of the industry You have the figures there, we have our blue buses, we have been to 19 cities, we have visited 11 cities and we have taken 3000 pupils and students, So then we are the bank Deep tech, you remember that we launched a deep tech plan in 2019. The point I can emphasize is how long it takes to get things done. You see, the industrial startup plan is January 2023. It's January 2026. Three years later, the French Touch plan has been four years. The Deep Tech plan was launched in 2019. That's it's going to be seven years.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  43:08
It takes time to build. But when you have that time, you actually build, it comes. it happens. So the Deep Tech plan this year is big numbers, a 5 billion euros deployed, 1000 deep tech start-ups in 2025, so these are the start-ups that come from French universities, So the eyes, you know, at this moment where we could be discouraged in the face of China, we have the impression that they are good everywhere, always better than us who are going to crush us everywhere, etc, yes and no It's that Quand même On a notre science, French scientific universities produce an incredible number of new Deep Tech start-ups every year. This year, we are not far from the 400 new Deep Tech startups produced by French entrepreneurial researchers. And there's that all over Europe. So then we have to finance them, make them grow, and that's what we do. So there you have it, in innovation, nearly 800 million euros that have benefited 1080 tech start-ups in direct investment. 414 for 90 start-ups. So there too, maybe Just 2 Awareness, the teams who are in this building have invested this year in 90 Deep Tech start-ups for 414 million euros and in funds of funds. So we invested in French Deep Tech funds. There are not enough. There are not enough French funds involved in industrial venture. There are still not enough French funds that are doing venture capital in deep tech. And I take this opportunity to tell you that there is not enough or no Deep Tech gloss funds from late state Deep Tech, that is to say capable of putting 50, 60, 80 million euros in. French deep tech, i.e. quantum for example or artificial intelligence. So the big big towers, the 300 million deep tech towers that we're getting to. When you started in 2019, you started with the seed, then you did Series A in 2020 and then you did Series B in 2022. You did the C series, D series in 2023, 2024 and you arrive in 2026. That's the big one, we're on 300 towers for space tech, quantum, the new frontiers of biotech, etc. and there we have a real market flaw, not only in France, but also in Europe, which is one of the problems we are facing today. Paris is now ranked 3rd in the world's Deep Tech ecosystem ecosystem. There is a lot going on in universities. If you if you go to Jussieu for example, soon the new Deep Tech innovation venture capital center of the University of Jussieu will be inaugurated which is a huge, gigantic, magnificent building built by one of the major European agencies in this case Danish super building Which is a pride for the city of Paris as such. So you have that in Paris Jussieu, but you also have that on psl and you have that in the provinces in all the major Deep Tech universities in the provinces. Finally frankly something is happening in French deep tech Now the responsibility of the BPI in particular, but not only that is that this Deep Tech lands in the French economy Really in a sustainable company and in employment, here is support. So it's always the same. To succeed, you have to support, support, support, you need human capital. And so one in six French deep tech start-ups was supported by BPI France in 2025. It's missions, it's advice, it's presence, it's our schools, etc. here I told you 380 Deep Tech startup created in 2025 in fact it's More it's T 420 it's written there Knowing that the goal we set for ourselves the GPS point we set with Paul when we launched the plan in 2019 was 500 we started from 100 or so And how much we started from 150 and we're at 420 and so one day we're going to finally reach our 2019 goal which was to make 500 Deep Tech start-ups per year but you see it's progressing little by little the bird is making its nest so the AI We'll give you an update on the AI Well that's what you were telling you earlier is the press release we published last week So you have everything I'm not going to redetail it but If you're Interested in the details you have them there it's always the same so it's from the Council for the Financing of Innovation Investment So we're almost at a billion euros on investment financing innovation We're at 1/2 billion euros And we'll be 2 billion over three years and then we've done a lot of advice so the advice is The plan to dare AI. Again, I always try to hang up on announcements that have been made. The small doubt that can set in on all these announcements that are made. Is it real or is it simply political posturing, we make a plan, but what's behind it, in fact, no, it's done, so auxiliares, the oselia plan is done and it's going to be done since we have 15 million euros To deploy it in the year E, 2026, so auxilias is the training of leaders, it's self-diags, it's deacons, dataya and it's SMEs supported through consulting missions, this is fundamental. So that's basically you have already understood Well and then we come back to the more classic presentation, you have the figures by business so I will go directly to the variations since the main point of my remarks I think is already very clear, so the financing of credit medium long term plus short term plus eight total plus six historical record the guarantee we are at plus nine six plus 10 in fact of de facto practically 10 billion euros of loans guaranteed by the BPI on the BPI's guarantee funds, then you have the financing of innovation, So it is down, it is down, because in fact FRANC E 2030 is ebbing Remember in 2023 we were 9 billion in 2025, in 2024. We were at that time 5 billion and so sorry 2024 we were at 5000 002025. We are at three 4 billion. The number of companies remains very high. We were at 5500, 2024 we are still at 4900 in 2020. Five and what goes down is Everything that is subsidized, that is to say really the cash of FRANC E 2030 normal, it was planned like that. On the other hand, what is rising well is loans and convertible bonds, growth of 3 billion euros per year in loans to innovation, which are loans on which we accept a loss experience that is, at the very least, three times higher than the normal loss rate of loans without BPI guarantees. So these are loans that are unsecured sitting on guarantee funds on which we pump to finance the cost of risk and they have grown by 43 and Paul adds that the guarantee funds in question are endowed by the state and by Brussels more and more by Brussels Brussels is very interested in guaranteeing the innovation loans of bpi france and you have here there in the small bubble the story of franc e 2030, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up to nine four and then it goes down again and now we think that we will roughly stabilize at around 3 billion per year, which is already not bad

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  51:23
and FRANC E 2030 in parentheses, I don't know why I'm starting to hear words that apply Absolutely not to What has been done, words like mismanagement, etc. But no, in our offices, we have the directory of all the projects financed by franc e 2030. Honestly, it's dazzling what it says about France. It's dazzling. So everything will not go all the way to the end of course. But I will not stop saying that Franc e 2030 is a miracle for the French innovation ecosystem. It is really a miracle and the other countries are only beginning to do so by noticing what France has been able to deploy. Well, they do it because they are debt-free so they have the means to do it. We did it and the whole subject is How will we make 2000 FRANC E 2040 well the investment I have already Said that it was a record year but you have the evolutions there So you have in innovation capital roughly it's stable in cap dev investment we are at Plus and in total of our investments we are at Plus anyway A great year In sale there We are in innovation capital to Plus, so direct innovation capital, so we're still selling, our portfolio is running, it's turning more than last year, we sold 31 stakes for 190 million euros, but it's especially in growth capital that we're doing huge sessions, since we're at three, one or 2 billion euros of disposals in 127 companies. That's really I take this opportunity to congratulate the teams because it's very, very difficult to do last year. So it's not the number of companies that moves a lot. Last year we had 130 sessions but it is the volumes three 2 billion euros With capital gains on disposals which are very significant and which translate into the value creation of the year that we are going to explain to you again later which is in the title of the press release a 3 billion euros of value creation in which you have 900 million euros of capital gain on disposal,  €900 million in capital gain on disposal in 2025. So what is down is the distributions of the partner funds from 960 million to 784 million. So the distributions of funds are the funds that give us back the money that we had put in them after having invested it in companies. So in order for them to be able to distribute to us, they have to sell the boxes And they are having more trouble at the moment before their box Unquestionably especially in innovation here is Good international So without repeating themselves so very very very year Strong plus 48 compared to last year And so you have the changes credit insurance,  the strategic project guarantee that I commented on, the foreign exchange insurance that I commented on, the export credit which is stable roughly at 280 million euros. Well, there are small decreases on specific products such as the International Growth Loan, the Foreign Project Guarantee, but all in all it's a big year of support for the economy in exports. The consulting So the consulting it is also in number of accelerated companies growing from the last 15 So it's A cumulative stock so it will be all. Growing

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  55:06
The truth is that the number of new accelerated companies is down, why is it down and why everything else is down, is that we have less money, the state had made an effort that was still quite convinced by the usefulness of this activity in 2024 and an effort that has only partially renewed in 2025 and not at all in 2026. So now we finance, we finance this consulting activity from our own funds, so we are going to stabilize it at this level, satisfaction rate 98. So that's how important creation is.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  55:49
So then that The 1st line is Maybe You who will I didn't understand that line

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  56:05
amounts in commitment and in 2025, in 2024, we have massively committed to Entrepreneurship 2030 for three years. If we look at the amount in payments, in fact, we pay about 60 million in subsidies to associations.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  56:20
There is no need to worry about the S 300 associations that are financed by us. It's Stable and that's it And interest-free loans are growing. Accelerated companies in the territories are growing from we are good That's what I wanted to tell you this is My Own Part. You have all this In detail in the press release and then we give you the preview almost finalized of the BPI's financial account. I am going to hand over to Arnaud Codount, who is Deputy Director General of the BPI and who will present to you the composition of the value creation of a 3 billion euros and the descent of the account and the evolution of our net result since last year. So on this point, my only introduction is to remind you that the BPI has its ultra-volumetric activity and it has some large companies that weigh on its account. It weighs either through very large dividends and dividends that come and go, or by the fact that they are put in equivalent in our accounts because the auditors considered that we had significant influence in these companies. So the big Stellantis and orange dividends, well, it's still orange but there's no longer Stellantis Stellantis was T 300 million per year. It went to zero. So the impact on BPI is considerable and there are two equity reactions. It's STMicro which was doing very very well until 2023 and then it's The slide and soytech Which was doing very very well until 2023 and then it's The slide. However, they are in our accounts, that is to say that we take their results for our share of the capital code in our accounts. So it shows. So to fully understand the intrinsic performance of the BPI, we must put aside these three lumps. Stellantis is micro and soytech

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  58:42
It absolutely does not depend on us but it impacts us and there you have the direct reading of the teams' performance. I want to say about the BPI. This is what Arnaud will now present to you.

Arnaud Caudoux, Deputy Managing Director, bpifrance  59:00
Thank you Nicolas. Hello everyone. So you had a lot of words in the 1st slide to tell you that these accounts are not yet audited by our auditors. So there is a tiny probability that is not exactly the same But a priori it will not move so much beyond the decimal point. So, as Nicolas said, what is important for us in economic analysis of what we produce in terms of financial performance. This is the variation in value. This year. The variation in value can be roughly grouped into two items. There is the net accounting result which does not specifically include changes in the value of direct risk capital. This basically includes the results of our other businesses, including the fund of funds. It doesn't include everything that is direct private equity performance apart from dividends and interest. So it doesn't include basically the essentials of what we do. So we have an operating performance of 507 million euros, which is distributed as you can see here. So there are still a lot of dividends this year since it was. In the change from 300 to zero. still had the good taste to do a march in 2025 where we are about halfway through the 300. We're at 140 million in contributions, so we're making -160 in dividends on Stellantis. We have the fund of funds that contributes a little bit this year, a little less to be honest than in other years, we have a digestion of the high valuations that tech has experienced in particular in 2020, 2,021 that are prolonged which means that the fund of funds and there has been no explosion of bubbles. But there is a kind of gradual digestion of values that have risen suddenly in 2019 from 1020, 2,021 since then which means that we have less new capital gains over these years on the venture capital side of what we do and then you have the result of the classic banking activities of BPI Investissement. In addition, we have all the capital gains on sales that we make this year on our direct investments. about 900 million euros, 876 to be precise. That's what you have to keep in mind out of almost 170 sessions eight times multiple. So we sold on average 170 times an eight times what we had bought from companies in 2025. That's huge. It's a very good year. It's been a very long time since we've had this level of added value and it's the 1st time we've had this level of added value on so many lines at the same time. That's what you have to remember in there. There's a couple of iconic sessions on our lake fund that's starting to Invest in 2020, so now starting to Sell Holdings. We sold Spi, we sold Ellis who made nice capital gains, including for the COTE share that BPI France has in this fund. You know that this fund is 5 billion. We are about 10000 00002 invested of our own funds in the deed. The rest is private funds that have invested with us. We sold nean to Brookfield, it's public, we sold diocyon, it's public too, which are very nice capital operations. There are many other Things that go into the variation of value which this year make almost zero in the -76 which is at the bottom. You have everything else that's moving in the balance sheet. So this year, we can break down the change in value roughly into two things: the net result and the capital gains on distribution. What is also interesting is to look because in our portfolio basically our equity is 30 billion euros. Of these €30 billion, there are €27 billion of equity investments in French companies, through the fund of funds, through development capital, through venture capital. So that's by far the essence of what we do in there. You have 13 billion, about half of which are listed companies. So that can move very quickly. We have some very big lines. Nicolas was talking about it orange, your lenses were Micro. You have variations from one year to the next that can be quite significant that will move the value of the portfolio. If you look at it over time, you average the sometimes slightly erratic oscillations of the markets and you find out what the performance of BPI France has been since its creation in 2013. We have made an average of it per year, every year on average we have a return on the equity that we have invested to break down into dividends that we have paid we have paid 5 billion euros Five two to be precise to the state And to the Caisse des Dépôts Who have been our shareholders since the creation of BPI France and we have once again simply created value so increase our funds If we want to look at all that we contribute in terms of cash remittances to the state, in particular to the fund, an 8 billion in taxes, so we have gone back to the public sphere 7 billion euros in cash since the creation of BPI France and we have also increased our equity by 9 billion euros, that gives you a good idea of what performance in the public sphere is. duration. it corresponds to What we are targeting.

Arnaud Caudoux, Deputy Managing Director, bpifrance  1:03:47
There too, I make a little 2nd of silence because it's really fundamental to understand this. Since the creation of the BPI, we have generated 9 billion in other equity. But if we were treated like the other European development banks that don't pay taxes and don't pay dividends. We would have added another 7 billion. That is to say that we would have made 16 billion euros of equity. We are the only European development bank. Almost maybe there is an exception that pays dividends like any private company and pays its corporate tax. And this represents gigantic sums because once again, since the creation of the BPI, it is 7 billion euros, 7 billion euros that have been transferred to the state at the Caisse des Dépôts.

Arnaud Caudoux, Deputy Managing Director, bpifrance  1:04:36
If we could push the logic, we could say that we would have made five appearances per year out of the 7 billion euros. But hey, we'll stop there If we look at net income this time despite everything because it remains the accounting result with all the KVs and that we have already said to ourselves about there is no variation in value. There are no capital gains on disposals. There are basically dividends and interest that we receive on bonds more. From the bank. We find what Nicolas said in the introduction. We have for information we have 1200 lines. Investment teams manage 1200 . We have stakes in 1200 companies in France. Of these 1200 companies, there are three that explain more than the drop in earnings this year since we have Stellantis whose dividend has gone from 300 to 130 million euros and will effectively go to zero in all likelihood. next year. It's already announced and we have two lines which are basically semiconductors which are both accounted for. These are the only two significant lines on which we have a significant influence and which we consolidate by equity method. This means that every year we take our code from their net income and put it in our accounts. It's really something else. We have no control over that. that's -350 . We made a provision on soietech which made a profit warning at the end of the year which massively lowered the price and we have STMicro which makes a very much lower result in 2025 than it was in previous years, whose price rose a lot at the beginning of the year As you can see. So we are already in terms of slides at the end of the slide on STMicro. If we take away these three elements that we help that for the rest. So the entire operational performance of all BPI France's businesses. We are up 126 million euros compared to last year and this brings us a net profit of 501 million euros. That's what we have to remember. We have three lines out of the 1200 that explain, let's be precise. 126 million more than the drop in net income. But we don't do 126 on everything else. That puts us at 501 million. We can look because that's the other thing that we always look at how we go from total revenue to that bottom line. So the total income is the net banking income. This year, it represents 1,800 million euros. We have the charges, all of the bank's operational costs, which represent 10000 00002 and we have the cost of risk, which is important on the cost of risk. So that's Our lending business. We have a portfolio of almost €60 billion in loans to French companies. In terms of cost of risk, it's 160 million, so it's very low. We are at 34 basis points on our credit portfolios. This year, like last year, it doesn't change. You can hear a lot of things in the press. If we look at our portfolio, it's several tens of thousands of companies. 60 billion euros loses this year 160 million euros, zero 34 basis points of cost of risk on the entire portfolio. Equity reactions, as we just mentioned, are much less than in previous years, but they still bring in money. it still brings in a hundred million euros And the corporate tax is very low because we have technical effects of tax recovery on old lines this year so we paid 10000 00002 in taxes In total it's not this year that we're going to increase this amount a lot once again for reasons of using old tax credit just a zoom on what the 10000 00008 is Still Interesting to see what are in financial contribution. BPI France's main businesses. If we go to the next page, you will find a little bit of the image of what I have just said. If we remove the private equity business, we are on the rise. The other major businesses are credit and guarantees in terms of contribution to net banking income, which are up slightly. It's much more stable things. The fund of funds, I talked about it a little bit, we have the digestion of the rapid valuation of the venture in the early 2020s and we have this effect, once again, of a drop in dividends on the private equity side, which explains the passage from a nominal level which is around 2 billion to u 10000 00008 of this last year, last point, last figure, that, in fact, a lot there, In total for the whole This morning, the other point that is interesting that you have to keep in mind As we are a bank, it is The balance sheet total, the balance sheet total, it has gone from 102 to 106 billion euros, So the balance sheet increases slightly In the balance sheet, you don't have. It's quite simple in fact to read when you group things together. So you have 60 billion in credit. You have 27 billion shares today to date, that's a little more by the way If we start at the end of January, it was 27 billion on December 31 and we have 18 billion which are all of the assets mainly bonds that we bring to the financial department To manage the company's balance sheet on a daily basis. We need this so that it's the oil in the wheels. If you want the BPI's balance sheet. And on the other hand, we have 30 billion in equity, a lot of refinancing, a little more because we have a margin of liquidity, 62 billion in resources that we acquire on the markets, mainly in the bond markets, and 9 billion in guarantee funds and innovation funds. Nicolas was talking about it earlier. When we provide guarantees, when we give aid to innovation, we have leverage mechanisms that mean that we ask for just what we need in terms of future risks from the state in guarantee funds and we put cash from elsewhere that we recover on the markets. In front of that, we. Multiplying according to the level of risk you take. Here is Don c 106 billion balance sheet, two classic metrics for banks. We have a ratio of this ONE therefore required third party one of hard equity which is 26. Most banks are between 15 and 20. We're at 26 six because we have a lot of stocks in the portfolio. We consider it important to have a higher ratio given the level of risk we take. It also means that the bank is very solid after all. We are far above what the regulatory obligations are and what the ECB's demands are, above the regulatory obligations for us as well as for all banks. So it remains an important element of comfort in terms of the stability of the number of French countries. Similarly, in liquidity, you have the LCR, which is the liquidity coverage ratio in good French, which is the short-term liquidity ratio, which says that in one month, we had on December 31, 1, a little more than three times our projected liquidity needs, so we knew how to cover three times the projected liquidity needs for the month of January, that's a lot, it's a lot, a lot, much more than most banks have. You can almost say that it's a little too technically at the end of December. But basically it corresponds to a policy which is that we always want to be Liquid, very liquid to always be ready to face whatever needs we may have. And so we assume this in a fairly proactive way, a little to the detriment of our profitability, but it allows us to be permanently flexible on our supports, if I may say so, and able to react to any form of economic shock. We have also given you two purely operational efficiency metrics, the cost-to-income ratio of our credit activities, which are strictly comparable to those of any bank and what is very favourably comparable to the cost-to-income ratios of any bank. And our expenses on assets under management, which are a little bit the equivalent for the DIRECT investment business and funds of funds, which are zero-like to everything else that can be seen in the world of private equity. Here is the 2025 financial report very quickly.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:12:06
This concludes this presentation. You have a final slide that gives you back the 26 and 30 ambitions of the BPI's strategic plan. with all the figures for those who are interested, we are on two major priorities, which are industry and the climate. You remember, €35 billion on industry, €35 billion on the climate. We have also published our desire to make €10 billion in health, €10 billion in artificial intelligence and to go to 1 million project leaders supported by our support networks. This is what we could tell you today. So we unroll, do you now have any questions? Yes

Speaker 1  1:13:03
hello Jamaican Nor for context. Thank you for the introduction. I wanted to come back to the investment figures in AI and deep tech that you mentioned. Are the figures explained by the fact that there is a lack of good files or are investors cautious as you mentioned on these subjects. And then to what extent does the year-on-year reduction in the budgets of the 2030 franc constrain you in your ability to support these sectors

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:13:34
So in subsidized financing of innovation And banking with our pre innovations. I think we can say that we have the resources we need. I'm not saying that we didn't have to fight a lot behind the scenes to protect all these budgets, but they were roughly so. Well, the subject is equity and it's equity for what I called earlier The late stage of deep tech, and so you know the growth that was the subject of the Tibi program, it was very, very strongly directed V. Pure digital, so the bulk of the airlock, does a lot but not much. Deep tech, so there is in France as in Germany, as well as a little bit in Great Britain, finally everywhere in Europe, a market flaw on Deep Tech LED towers, and that's a problem that we're going to have to solve. So it's in front of us. We have raised a lot of alarms. It's been 18 months now that we've been saying that we're going to end up having a problem. It is. Let us build armies of very promising start-ups and the Americans do exactly the same thing. Their startups are no better than ours In science except that they raise 500 600 1 billion when we raise E 120 so it's The Draghi report is Neither more nor less than what the Draghi report diagnoses European private savings are not going V. The financing of the new frontiers of risk and who takes risks in Europe, states very little, the private insurance, pension fund, family office, prefer to invest in American risk than in European risk. So that's the 2026 battalion. It was already the E 2025 battalion, but it is a real great E 2026 battalion. It's starting to go to people's heads with this diagnosis. And so I think that, as usual, once you've made a diagnosis, you know, people don't feel well. You do an MRI and on the MRI, you see where the problem is and it immediately gets much better. It's a placebo side, so we know where the problem is. The problem is private money in Europe's late-stage deep tech.

Speaker 2  1:16:21
This option finances a question in the previous thread on AI BPI France signed with great fanfare the launch of the AI campus, the largest European campus. It seems that you have a driving role in this project. So there the figures are not much, especially with regard to the project. So on the banks we are still talking about 30 to 50 billion euros. Of these 30 to 50 billion, I would like to know what role BPI France will play in the future. Is it rather Guarantees? You communicate a lot but on this subject, you have not said much until now. So yes, what will happen to this 50 billion euro project? Ok.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:17:06
So we chose Mouba as our partner in the MGX on the territory of the commune of Foujus. So we are on an infrastructure project In fact, since last February, most of the energy has been devoted to the creation of the company, to the negotiation with the elected officials and with the owners of plots, to the negotiation with RTE on the connection of the future campus to the French nuclear electricity grid, etc. so we are still in phase 1st Pierre, so in phase 1st Pierre, we are not deploying 1000 and cents. But the 1st Stone takes a lot of time, a lot of time, So then there's the question of oftakes, which is the question of the moment, where we obviously have very, very nice requests, which are requests from American GAFAM, but also from major players in European artificial intelligence. And so this is the moment that we are now facing. So once we have them, we now have the building permits, the authorizations to operate The electrical connection and we will have the oftke The construction will be able to start there, You will have the figure, it's infra, it's very different, how not, so we Yes, we are, we are a shareholder in the holding company which will then deploy all this. So this holding company, it will obviously seek bank financing to finance these operations or quasi-equity, etc. There is a question behind it.

Speaker 3  1:19:03
Hello fanov challenge White recently last week, the High Commission for Planning made recommendations in relation to the competition that you yourself mentioned Chinese competition and you are directly impacted as an investor, especially companies Like Stellantis OST, the High Commissioner suggested either to massively lower the value of the euro against the RMB or to massively increase customs duties. So 1st Question, as an investor shareholder in these companies that are very impacted by this competition, this Asian competition, what is your position? And 2nd question quite different. There are two major industrial projects that have gone bankrupt or are in great difficulty recently, which have been helped by public money. It is novasco that has been almost liquidated and arc in your conference at the beginning, you said there are companies, there are sectors where we will not be able. to be supported. But what is your position? Should we still support their transformation? Do you have a role to play or should you stop the tap of public money and risk putting thousands of people on the sidelines?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:20:16
Thanks? Yes no Vasco is tascometal. Is that it? Yes Ascometal and Ark so ASCO Metal Well listen it hadn't escaped you a few years ago that the BPI had refused to go there because we thought that the market would never be there It seems to me that we were not completely wrong and on arc international we have historically been shareholders. This was a long time before the war in Ukraine. We were a co-shareholder with the Russian sovereign wealth fund. Imagine it or not, we sold out very early. I think so, and no one came to look for us there, neither on novasco, nor on arc international. There is no PPI team mobilized on these issues. The contractors didn't come to us for the state either. So I only read the press. I see that on Ark, there is a takeover solution by the founder's grandson. Well, it may be the right solution with capital that is capital of northern families. That seems to me to be very, very good capitalism. In fact, the state cannot do everything either. So on China. Yes, this is a very complicated affair because

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:21:42
first of all, customs issues are ultra-complex subjects so you can't pretend, you have to be polite to your audience and therefore not claim to have fully mastered them, it's really a science, this thing, so the 30-year safeguard clause is unilateral on everything, why not just some consider that it's really a complete atomic weapon, and so it's engaging in a tunnel of retaliation, probably extremely important, knowing that, moreover, our dependencies on China are considerable, so you have to be lucid, I'll give you an example, all the fundamental chemistry that you find in the basements of the large microelectronics factories. it Crolle. I'm not talking about rare earths here, I'm not talking about rare metals. I'm talking about basic chemistry. Molecules are Chinese because Europe sent everything there, so we have dependencies. So this makes some observers say that the generalized recommendation of 34 is a dangerous recommendation. And I tend to think that we have to observe how China has done with us and we have to copy everything. They didn't put 30 on everything. They basically did as you see it's this mixer there Sound engineers You don't understand why there are 1000 buttons in fact customs issues it's A mixer with 1000 buttons and you move a button here and there You're super plastic bile and So for example,  China in 2013 increased the number of photovoltaic panels by 56 litium. It's not complicated 10 years later, they have 99 € of global market share but they have only done it on polysilum. They kept three ions on things they needed and that's what we have to do, which supposes having in fact a staff. It is in Brussels, of course, it is the DG for Trade that must do this. But DG Trade is very dependent on the Council and the Parliament. So we actually have very clearly a European governance that today does not allow the sound engineer to have all the powers in front of his mixing desk to do in the right places. And so my comment is that I think our problem is essentially a governance problem. We have the instruments. So yesterday I made, I made a speech on this. I think that there are two things that are missing in Brussels today to really give SMEs the feeling that they have been heard. The 1st is that when you file a complaint with DG Commerce, it takes a long time before it is processed. So there is a huge staffing problem at DG Commerce. They have to recruit. But when we ask them, they say I don't have a budget. So we need an administration that deals with the massive influx of complaints from European industry from Poland to Brittany. Then there are the poor SMEs. But it's also okay for industrial startups when they have to investigate a case like this, they go to see a lawyer in Brussels. And the lawyer tells them what 1 million euros is Entry ticket. So it's not possible knowing that the law firms in question are full of former officials of the commission. So we need to think about a kind of ex officio commission in the processing of dumping cases to democratise access to customs justice for the benefit of European SMEs. Today it's a thing that is reserved for the aristocracy of the big groups, so the steel workers who are perfectly equipped, all those who are able to pay the lobbies to pay for the million-euro ticket of the basic lawyer of Brussels. That's not okay so let's be super pragmatic. There is a problem of governance and there is a problem of democratization of access to customs justice

Speaker 4  1:26:03
If there are no other questions in the room, we go to

Speaker 1  1:26:15
You spoke earlier about the possibility of an FRANC E 2040 I was wondering a little how you see the end of the management of the envelope And then the next one eventually, we can see that for a year, a year and a 1/2 We have been spreading the jam a little, if I may say so, more progress Loans Less subsidies Reprioritization And we see that there is more political space, well not in this At the moment, in any case, for a new envelope, part of the left we don't want in this current form, part of the right finds that there has been too much waste, too much money given to start-ups, etc., so how do you envisage the future, in fact, are you preparing for the possibility that there will not be a franc in 2030 in this form, which has been very driving force? for the action of BPI. Do you hope that other mechanisms will eventually take over? Maybe a capital markets union, funded pensions or something else? Here's how it can happen. So I'll answer you

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:27:17
we, the BPI, are still active in the state. We are fighting for whom a franc e 2040 seems fundamental to us in the balance of the great balances in the background of geopolitics, it is out of the question to put down the bag now and we must continue to give an outlet to our science, moreover, we must continue to finance our science in the universities of French deep tech, this is part of what the geopolitical rearmament of Europe So we are totally in line with the Draghi reports and the state obviously we need a franc e 2040 in fact we need one and all the countries are in the process of making Germany 2040 ital Ie 2035 So there is no question of France putting down the bag at a time when Everyone is taking off fundamental then the amounts in FRANC E 2030 there are about 10 left billions so there is still enough to do good, it seems huge, 10 billion, but 10 billion is to be compared with what the indexation of pensions in 2024 and 2025 cost, 25 billion per year per year. The decision that was taken, which was not even really discussed politically at the time, costs 25 billion euros per year and the indexation of pensions for 2026. I haven't redone the calculation, but it's probably 6 billion.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:28:52
So that's it. What are our collective choices. hence the book I wrote, if I may say so,

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:29:00
It's that if you want to continue to develop French innovation, you have to look at what are the major collective choices of France and this debate is going to take place. The good news is that we have 3 billion for 2026 and that of 2027 normally too since there are 10 billion children left in 2030 it allows us to do things

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:29:32
after Parliament decides Parliament 2027 will decide

Speaker 5  1:29:47
Yes. Hello Philippe warrior for place of IT Two small questions about artificial intelligence. You consider AI more like development capital if I have understood correctly. Is there still a dimension of Deep Tech in it? In this case, I would have liked to have had details on this subject and on the 10 billion euros of so-called private funding planned for AI in strategic deployment in 2026-2030. Could this amount change in view of the global competition around AI?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:30:18
no I think that the 10 billion euros for the moment we are on it

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:30:27
It's still essentially deep tech. It's not so much of the Dev cap. The CAP Dev part is the infra part of the IA campus. but otherwise when you put capital into Mistral, when you put capital into Age, when you put capital into Poolside cantonal in Hawking. All this is really hardcore innovation. These are deep tech startups. And in the background of the funds too, the country's partner funds invest mainly in deep tech AI

Speaker 4  1:31:08
Are we done with the questions in the room? Oh one last

Speaker 6  1:31:17
Yes, so questions about lake you were saying that AC One has finished its investment phase, has started to disinvest. When do we make a lake two and how?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:31:28
So it's on the side With a private equity logic since we are always present on the board. Indeed, the lake fund is at the end of its investment. There are about 400 million left, and so, and then it's a fund that is 10 years plus two years, we have time to quietly divest it and think one day about A lake two on the other side Who will be its successor which is not the priority of today Because today we have honestly covered the needs of the market, the market on big Cornerstone tickets, companies, the cac or SBF 120 with our own funds and with lac, you have the portfolio, you know it, so we are still present in many, many companies. Today, it will come back in five years. at that time, we will probably raise a lake two. On the other hand, what we see is that there is a big need for the BPI and for our partners to allow us to deploy private equity tickets, this time 200,304,100,500 million euros. There are a plethora of Anglo-Saxon players so we are raising a new fund which is Public but not good how Good which will be called Blue Sea Blue Sea here is And so it is a fund of 5 billion euros again that we are going to raise all over the world to do this, that is to say private equity tickets of very significant size 60 childhood in Europe with our teams.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:33:57
This is not the news of the day. One was needed for the finance option.

Speaker 4  1:34:07
Maybe I'll move on to the questions that are online. I have a 1st question from Alexandre Boudard of the Courrier Picard on the company eurolisine Ex Medex in Amiens, 45 owned by BPI France and once again threatened by unfair competition from China which has circumvented the customs duties of the European Commission by addressing them by absorbing them. Sorry, a new complaint has been filed by eurolisine with Europe for the opening of an anti-absorption investigation on lysine. How can Europe better protect its industry? What do you think of this case?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:34:38
Well, a very critical look because first of all, the BPI did its job with my texts. We believed in it a lot. We had a high-quality entrepreneur and then he was taken full force by the Chinese competition on the one hand and then on the other. Part, if I remember correctly, by the price of sugar, because of the very cause of the European protection against Brazilian sugar, and so we had to sell almost for the symbolic franc to the April group, and the APRIL group is making a point of reviving this company, which is called Eurolysine. Indeed. Except that the root causes of our difficulties are still there. It is the last European company that manufactures lysine. Everything went to China. There is only one left. It's this one. So either we put up massive customs barriers to protect the last European player, or. That's all. This is what I have just explained. Thank you for asking. This is an emblematic case of how difficult it is to be in the right rhythm to protect our companies. That's all. If the Commission's decision comes next year, it will be too late. Another question.

Speaker 4  1:36:05
Yes, from the same Journalist after the failure of insects financed by BPI France. Don't you regret this investment after the fact and what future for this sector?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:36:19
Yes, that's right. I thought it useful to make the comment so insect innovafied, agronutrients, etc. So there has been a whole wave of entrepreneurs who have launched themselves into this new vertical, which is animal or even human food based on insects. Some have succeeded, some have failed. Insect narrowly failed by the way It was missing 10 million euros at the end but we didn't find it and the BPI was at the maximum of what it could do it had already invested a lot there are private investment funds that lost a lot of money On a cult with us we must always remember that we are Not in an arsenal economy where the BPI finances 90 of of these initiatives. There, the BPI finances 27 of the private sector. So the private sector believed in it. The BPI has been supportive. It didn't work. So why didn't it work? Because on the one hand, they made a choice of vertical plant that was much too complex, on the other hand, they made the choice to immediately make a giga factory when it should have gone little by little, then there are human constants, the quality of Mr. Thing, the quality of Mrs. Machin, then there is the choice of a particular insect that is different from the insects chosen by other companies that have a The huge disadvantage is that when the poor animal is crushed, it makes much, much more oil than the others. And so the machines break down because the machines were not designed to absorb such volumes of oily gelatin. It's industry. I can tell you that the Chinese live this every day. The Chinese, it's no problem for them to have failed on 30 insects before finally succeeding in the Qui va marche course. And then they go all out, they go all out and they become world leaders. You can't reindustrialize without breaking eggs, it's not possible. Innovafied Marche. Inova feed has made the right choices. So a horizontal factory, a modular factory container by container the right insect that doesn't make too much oil, etc etc. And as if by chance, prices are falling more and more manufacturing and therefore customers are happy and innovofie will work. It so happens that BPI France is also a shareholder in innovofide. So maybe one day we will be able to take stock and we will find in proceeds from the sale on Nova fields that we lost to a cult. This is the life of the entrepreneur investor that we are.

Speaker 4  1:38:55
I have two more questions from Bloomberg's Claudia Cohen, one about AI, have you set up due diligence upstream of your investment decisions to understand the potential for disruption or the impact on a company's business model. And 1 second on Worldline, your recent capital increase. Are you a long-term shareholder? Could you increase your participation in the future And what other initiatives could support you?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:39:19
So, on AI, I don't really understand the question because it suggests that we would sometimes make investments without doing due diligence. I can confirm that no, that is to say that we never make an investment without them having a huge amount of work. But if the implicit part of the question is to say do you have some sort of central scenario of AI-related job destruction or AI-related productivity gains. Anyway, holistically, the answer is no no for a simple reason which is that. The subject is still highly debated in the economic community. There is the San Francisco consensus which explains to you that you are going to gain 10 points of GDP and you have the economists of the IMF who say not at all, you have the economists of the European Central Bank who say we don't know and you have rexed Code, you have the direction of studies of the BPI,  you have the Chief Economist of Google, well no one agrees. So we're going to say that for the moment We don't know very well yet. What is certain is that it will generate productivity gains. That's absolutely certain, but in proportions that are extremely difficult to anticipate. And the question was What about Worldline. Oh yes Worldline so Worldline remains a fundamental market infrastructure. We think it will remain so in the long run. So we remain a patient shareholder in support of Worldline. We absolutely do not think that stable coins will jeopardize Worldline's business model for a very long time and so we are closely watching the refinancing of this company.

Speaker 4  1:41:07
Ok, I have one last question from ella Julien from capital finance. Have you started to deploy the retail defence fund? And if so, in which company?

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:41:14
Yes, yes, absolutely. I have this somewhere. Yes, yes. We invested in six companies. The person asking the question could give the names of the boxes. We will make a men's agenda for the press release. Yes, yes, of course, of course. Right now.

1:41:35
I don't have any other questions online.

Nicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance  1:41:38
So listen. Thank you very much for your patience. Lots of content. until next year.
